The Joe Rogan experience. No, I wonder if, if you, if you run a lot,
the inside of your knees gets accustomed to it.
Like it gets a callous in there. Yeah. Well.
No like it strengthens. No. Is that.
Possible? Cartilage is wears away at some point.
It's just not made to do that that much. I don't know if that's true.
Look it up. Baby cartilage is gone. How do.
Those a hundred marathon people, those dudes who run those ultra marathons,
how do they do it? Year after year after year?
Cause they can't do it their whole life.
You do it for a chunk of time until your knees, your sketch shot. But.
Imagine if it's just like, if you, if you're just a,
it gets to the point where your knees are shot. But if you keep going,
you push through your knees, wind up, fixing themselves, your legs. Just break,
know you, your legs callous over.
Well.
It's like there's the was a campaign for a great cyclist called shut up legs.
You look up, shut up legs. It's like a whole thing about.
People. Worry about running ruins knees, but a new study finds the activity.
Main fact benefit the joint,
changing the biomechanical environment inside the knee in ways that could help
keep that could keep it work smooth, working smoothly,
carrying less weight to reduce risk for knee arthritis.
Come on running may be good for your knees. That's the New York times you dummy.
You don't know Jack's. Okay.
Click on that. The failing, the failing New York times. Shut your mouth.
The failing New York times. What are you?
Trump lion. Ted crazy hill wrote it. Oh,
who's lion Hillary crazy Ted many worry about my knees. New studies.
My decades of running. Okay.
There's a little evidence to support the idea in a growing body of research
suggest reverse <laugh> oh, this is click bait.
New York times got us epi epidemiological studies of
long-term runners show that they may,
that they generally are less likely to develop osteoarthritis in the knees than
people. The same age you not run.
Sometimes scientists are speculated that running running may protect knees
because it is often associated with relatively low body mass carrying less
weight is known to reduce the risk of Neo arthritis.
It makes little evidence to that, that it ruins.
Knees. Oh yeah. It's saying little evidence that a ruins knees,
but it also says some scientists have speculated running.
So these there's no evidence. There's no evidence in proof.
They're just saying this is also a possibility.
See, go back up to where it was. Oh,
the widespread argument generally follows the lines that running will slowly
wear away the cartilage that cushions the bones and the joints and cause
arthritis. But there's little evidence support the idea. That makes sense. Okay.
Okay. So what I was saying, I was incorrect. I was,
I just tried to jump paragraphs. I missed the car context of it. Well,
that makes sense. Look, these guys that I know, this is what I'm saying.
These guys that I know that run all the time,
they have good knees and you would think they didn't these volunteer stop. Stop,
go back.
These volunteers visited a clinic where they had blood drawn from an arm.
The researchers also siphoned off a small amount of synovial fluid,
a lubricating that reduces friction inside joints from the right knee,
healthy knees contain only, uh, what is that word?
Soupcon soup of the stuff. I don't even know what that word is.
An arthritic or otherwise unhealthy knees tend to contain much more.
Interesting. All right.
Well, my knees are gonna be good. Hmm. I just Don you know,
this is all speculative too. There's not enough resource supporting it too.
So who.
Knows? Yeah. Well, it makes sense though, that your muscles would be stronger.
And then that would probably support your knee better than a person who doesn't
exercise.
I don't know. But that cartilage wears out either way. Anybody, you know,
that's a great athlete. They always say that a knee,
the knee cartilage you wears from so much wear into,
especially like jumping a lot, like yeah.
Basketball. That's different. Like that's explosive plyometric type movements.
It's not running like running is.
Justt you're running. Yeah. But it also depends on what you're running on too.
But.
There's a difference between running it's like going left going right.
And cutting and exploding to left, you know,
like a move that you would do on the court. Right. You know?
And then you're running on a trail where it's got some dirt.
You get a little cushion.
Yeah. There's so there's some absorption there. There's.
This is a, that was from 2017.
This one is more updated off of a new myth toppling new study that says that
middle aged runners do actually rebuild the health of their knees.
See, what did I tell you? GTO? I had an idea. See,
we'll see a myth topping news study of novice middle aged runner suggests the
answer is a qualified. What is the question? Again? Scroll up.
Could it be that marathon training and racing are actually good for our knees?
Maybe.
<Affirmative>.
Another one of these new study. You son of a,
a of novice middle aged runner suggests the answer is a qualified. Yes.
The study finds taking up distance,
running rebuilt the health of certain essential components of middle aged knees.
Even if the joint starts off somewhat tattered and worn. What I tell you,
show me the studies. But the results also contain a caution marathon.
Mileage could erode one vulnerable area within the knee. The study fines,
if runners are not careful, but we won't.
Wanna talk about that because this sounds.
Is about, but what is that vulnerable part?
That's what I'm saying. That's what they do that they bury it.
Stop complaining like Chicago person scroll down. <laugh>.
I have the study. I was gonna check that.
But what does it say? There was a one area.
It said that's what I was gonna check in the study. If it, well.
Just scroll down. I'm sure. It'll tell us. Oh.
They're going on. Other studies done here. Mm-hmm <affirmative> other one.
Must I study another.
Study? What is it saying? What part of the knee focus on running activity?
Harms knees. Do you do scroll down? The question is Hmm.
Is that the end of it? No. No. It just keeps going. Why do they do that?
When they break.
Things up with, I can't.
Stand that. You have one free article remaining. Right? Subscribe. Okay. What,
what is the problem with the injury? I'll check. What is okay.
All find the one I would imagine cartilage is the big issue. Um,
and meniscus. When meniscus goes, if it gets blown out, then you're done. Yeah.
Like if you twist your knee and you cut your meniscus, have you run a.
Marathon? No. See you're giving me about it. I wouldn't,
you wouldn't do it either. I wouldn't do a half either. I'm not doing it.
I don't wanna run with all those people. Very.
Specific spot.
It says the improvement to the subchondral bone of the tibial ephemeral
condo eyes was perfect sense. Following the marathon in Novi runners.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> so and patella cartilage. Mm-hmm <affirmative>.
That's the bad part. That's what it does.
Bad worsening of.
The patella cartilage. Mm. That makes sense. It breaks it down. Yeah.
But can't you fix that yet?
I mean, they don't, they fix that. They'll give you, they'll give you those, uh,
stem cells. Yeah. Stem.
Cells or, well, I know they do micro fractures and.
Like they do all kinds of different things to people to try to heal the, uh,
cartilage in their knees. Right?
Yeah. Run. I just realize how privileged running is. That was like,
I just get to run sometimes during the day.
<Laugh> yeah. So you don't get so fat from eating all the food you want.
<laugh> that's what's crazy. All the,
you eat our problem in America is eating too much food.
Yeah. It's uh, we have way too much access we're it's we're spoiled with it.
Yeah. Yeah. But I just realized that that the time of my day I get to go,
I can run to the gym and then run home. And that's like a nice day.
I get to have nice lucky dude. Nice. No, I wouldn't run, you know,
I wouldn't run a marathon because, uh, I don't like the people that do.
That's genuinely it. You see all the people that get it. The, the thing,
the culture. I don't wanna be a part of it. No, thanks. You don't have to.
Be, man. You could be alone.
Wolf. Woo. Ringing the bells and shouldn't taking the,
I don't wanna do any of that stuff. No, you could put.
Like Tibetan monk, chant. Yeah. That's dope on your phone.
And just listen to that. As you run degree,
do music would do that.
And then my heart, keep that, keep that thing going for four hours. I.
Would time I would go run in the middle of nowhere before I'd ever run in an
actual marathon plan thing.
Oh, okay. So you would run the 26 miles. Like maybe you run a track.
No, it has. Can't be on a track. No track. I've done. I've tried track.
When I first moved to LA, I tried running at UCLA. Cause my buddy got me a,
a pass to go work out at their gym and I did a track. Yeah. Board.
Miserable. Let me ask you this. If you had a track,
like a standard university track, that's like how, how, how many,
many feet is that? Like what is that quarter mile what's most track.
Each lap is quarter.
Mile, quarter mile. Yeah.
How many times do you think you go around? Mm-hmm <affirmative> I mean, I could,
did you go around a hundred times?
No. Are you paying me? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I could do it as many times.
You wanna pay me? Well, if she.
Had a bet, what if like you and Jamie? Okay. You have.
To bet. Jamie doesn't run.
Maybe this three point shoot up before we get into this race. Yeah.
Let's do three point. Shoot. You do that too. <laugh> and then we,
and then we need to a, you can do that too. You don't run. Do you? Yeah.
Do people do that though? It seems like that would be like a great bet.
If these ultra marathon runners really went to put their money where their mouth
is, they get together on a track. See how long theyll go.
Let's see who quits first.
Oh, that's. <laugh> that sounds that's killer dude.
They would never stop. They would never stop. You could.
Stop to pee or. That's.
It? What's the math cuz I'm dumb. What's 26 times four.
104. If it's a quarter of a mile, that means four of 'em.
Four of 'em are a mile. So be 104.
You'd be pretty close to a hundred.
You'd have to run a hundred, four times to run a mile, um,
to run a marathon on a track. 104 laps. Yeah. So when to answer your question,
could I run a hundred laps on a track. No.
You you're closing in on a marathon around around a hundred times. Yeah.
Well hundred, four times is, is a marathon. No way. No one. Oh,
imagine you, you get into like seven, seven,
you hit seven and you're like, all right. I think I did it.
I don't wanna loop around this thing. And what look at this. Look at this, uh,
football field again. No miserable. That's you miserable?
Doesn't mean I haven't even hit eight yet. Yeah. You're not even close.
It's gonna take another two and a half minutes for you to get to eight and then
you get there eight. What you think?
<laugh> I got 92 to go.